To Map Drives via GPO create a new GPO.
Navigate to User Configuration --> Preferences --> Windows Settings --> Drive Maps
Right Click on the right pane and select new --> mapped drive for every drive you want to map.

Selection on the General Tab:
Action: Update
Location: \\server\share
Recconnect: checked

If you want the drive to be mapped if a user is member of a specific group:
On the common tab you can select map the drive in user context, item-level targeting and click on targeting
Now click on new element and select security group.
Select the group you want to check against in the lower pane via the "..." Button and
click "ok" when done.

One thing you probably also want to do is to remove the drives when the user isn't in the
specified group for a drive anymore.
In this case we create an additional mapped drive to delete the drive.
The easiest way is to just create a copy of the drive in the gpo
and Update the Action from Update to Remove/Delete in the General Tab.

For this to work the targeting also has to be updated.
Click on the targeting button as described above.
Select the created Element, select Element options and select is not.
Now the targeting checks if a user isn't memeber of a group and removes the drive
if true.
Click on "ok" when done.

The prefered way to this would probably be via one mapped drive entry per drive
and the options to map the drive in the user context and remove the item if not applied
anymore in the common tab.
This also seems to work.
But not always ( tested with different users ).
Sometimes the drive had to be unmapped manually and afterwards it works sometimes it
worked first try.
I think that it probably has to do with how the drive(s) where mapped in the first place.
I set this up in an existing environment that mapped via loginscript and later via gpo with
different settings.
So the initially described scenario/setup works best in this environment for me.
On a new one the regular policy settings might be better. But should still be tested
Also described here (ou instead of group is used here and the option to remove the item if not applied
anymore are not apllied there ) :
https://activedirectorypro.com/map-network-drives-with-group-policy/
The make it work in an existing environment like the one I'm using you could delete
als mapped drives via loginscript.
But than you would have to apply the policies again.
As this doesn't make sense I sticked to the above solution.
Also the remove drives entry propably lead to eventlogs regarding mapped drives that
couldn't be deleted because they weren't mapped.

The article below regarding the Remove this item if it is no longer applied option, might also be of interest:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-server/group-policy/remove-this-item-if-it-is-no-longer-applied-option

